# AthenaHacks2025
With FireCheck, you will know if you are in danger from any fires up to 15 days in advance by checking the probability of fires before they begin- allowing you to pack necessities and get to safety!
## Inspiration
There are many applications allowing people to determine where an existing fire is located and which direction it is traveling in, but there are no applications that allow a person to determine the probability of a fire occuring their location before the fire starts. FireCheck allows people to determine the likelihood of a fire in their specific area with realtime updates. Often, information about fires are outdated unless the fire is currently happening. Most times, areas are simply marked as fire hazards without actually considering the current weather conditions. Instead, it simply looks at historical data and marks an area as a hazard for the entire fire season. Moreover, evacuation alerts have been sent to entire areas instead of just the specific city that needs to evacuate. Recently, the entire LA population was sent an evacuation notice that led to worry until another notification correcting the mistake was finally sent. FireCheck uses updated conditions to determine the amount of fire danger a specific city is currently in, regardless of whether it is fire season, and the specific probabilities allow users to prepare well in advance of the fire and evacuate safely with help from our chatbot.
## About FireCheck
FireCheck is a web application which outputs weather data for an inputted city over the next 15 days. Then, the application will use this data and pass it through an equation which will output the probability of a fire occurring in the specified city. The application will also portray the amount of danger a person is in and provide a chatbot with advice for advice on next steps.
## Technical Specifications
Web Application: The website needs a form with an input field that accepts cities. Once the form is submitted, a table should be outputted with the weather data. Then, a percentage will be outputted for the probability that a fire will occur and the danger levels will be shown so users can understand whether a certain percentage means they need to worry or not. Also, there will be a link to a chatbot so that users can ask any questions are gain any tips. The link will take the user to a page for them to input their questions and a chatbot will output responses.
## Detailed Designs
We use HTML to create a website and added forms to take in the search parameter of location. Then, we used JavaScript to request the weather data through an API for visualcrossing. After retrieving the information as a JSON data type, the information is then added to a table and placed through a formula to output the fire probability. CSS and Bootstrap was used to style the website to make it user-friendly.
## Challenges
1. It was difficult to find accurate weather data. There were very few large enough datasets and most datasets available have a limited range of data, leading to biased information as there were missing parameters.
2. There were little datasets on past fires available but we were able to find one from a government website. We combined this dataset with the weather data to determine the weights of each parameter that influences the probability of a wildfire.
3. We encountered challenges when creating the chatbot, including technical errors while integrating the chatbot into the website with the HTML file.
4. The equation used to calculate the probability was initially inaccurate. We had to undergo multiple modifications to increase the accuracy of the equation by incorporating more parameters.
## What's next for FireCheck
Expand the fire predictions to more areas outside of California - ideally including coverage across North America, since many parts of Canada are also prone to frequent wildfires! Also, we can continue incorporating more parameters and use larger datasets to increase the accuracy of our predictions.
